---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Coding Style Reflection
date: 2017-08-31
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Coding Standards
---

Coding conventions are guidelines for the style and formatting of writing code. The guideline generally cover elements such as file 
organization, indentation, commenting, declarations, statements, white spacing, naming convernstions for variables and methods, 
programming practices and principles, architectural best practices, and so forth. These guidelines are used to ensure that code is 
well-structured and easy for others to read and understand, especially when collaborating on projects. 

After a week of using a ESLint with IntelliJ, I haven't encountered many grammatical issues. My own personal style of coding turns out to 
be near-perfectly in-line with the convention that we were given for my ICS 314 (Software Engineering I) class. I suppose this means that 
I was already using a neat and efficient style---which makes sense as I simply copied the conventions of my various teachers and professors
over the year. By mimicking people who know how to write code in a very clear and readble way I have in turn fostered a desierable style 
of programming. 

I think that adopting such rigorous coding styles would be of benefit to many people as it is often a challenge for me to quickly comprehend
others' code as their styles often vary from my own. Piercing the styles of others is often a tideous challenge that doesn't affect much,
however, if I were to be working on a large-sclae project alongside multiple other programmers, I would very much want everyone to adopt 
the same coding style so that we do not waste any time accomodating personal preferences. 

For the sake of unity, order, readibility, and corroboration, it is best if people adopt standard coding conventions. It has the potential 
to greatly improve the quality of work of coders at any level. I whole-heartedly think that people should learn how to program whilst under
the strictness of a coding convention so that new programmers learn to how write elegant code without ever having to un-learn what they 
have already grown accostomed to. 
